Business Operations Manager, Monetization (Emerging Pricing Models)
About Rippling
Rippling gives businesses one place to run HR, IT, and Finance. It brings together all of the workforce systems that are normally scattered across a company, like payroll, expenses, benefits, and computers. For the first time ever, you can manage and automate every part of the employee lifecycle in a single system.



Take onboarding, for example. With Rippling, you can hire a new employee anywhere in the world and set up their payroll, corporate card, computer, benefits, and even third-party apps like Slack and Microsoft 365—all within 90 seconds.

Based in San Francisco, CA, Rippling has raised $1.4B+ from the world’s top investors—including Kleiner Perkins, Founders Fund, Sequoia, Greenoaks, and Bedrock—and was named one of America's best startup employers by Forbes.



We prioritize candidate safety. Please be aware that all official communication will only be sent from @Rippling.com addresses.





About the role
As a founding member of our new Monetization & Pricing Team within BizOps, you will own pricing and packaging strategies across our expanding product portfolio. This role will be focused on monetization of our emerging pricing models, including usage-based and value-based pricing, which we will deploy across a suite of AI, Analytics, Data Cloud, and Forward Deployed Engineering products.



What you'll do
Drive usage-based pricing strategy: Work in partnership with Product Marketing, Engineering, and Finance to develop pricing models for AI and other emerging products that are aligned with the competitive environment and rationalized against underlying infrastructure costs. 
Operationalize value-based pricing: Partner with Sales, Solutions Consulting, and Forward Deployed Engineering teams to define guidelines for services that are priced on Value, including running Deal Desk meetings and developing pricing collateral.
Conduct Deep Analysis: Lead quantitative and qualitative research—such as competitive benchmarking, conjoint and Van Westerndorp studies, , and usage data analysis—to inform and validate packaging decisions.
"Go and see": Immerse yourself in user behaviour and product details by interviewing customers, "secret shopping" competitor products, sitting in on sales calls, and working directly with R&D teams to understand value firsthand.
Balance Cross-Functional Needs: Act as the unbiased connective tissue between GTM, Product, and Finance, facilitating open debate and challenging stakeholders directly to arrive at the best decision for Rippling.


What you will need
6+ years of experience in a pricing role, management consulting, business operations, venture capital, private equity, or as a founder—with a strong focus on AI monetization and/or usage-based pricing. We will consider high-trajectory candidates with fewer years of experience but at top companies with a clear track record of excellence.
Deep SaaS Acumen: A strong understanding of SaaS and AI-native business models, unit economics (LTV/CAC, gross margin, NRR), and cross-product bundling dynamics.
Naturally Analytical Mindset: You gravitate toward a spreadsheet rather than a slide deck. Experience with advanced pricing research methodologies and financial modeling is highly preferred.
Cross-Functional Fluency: Experience in a highly cross-functional role with the ability to clearly describe and work within the organizational dynamics of a fast-growth company.
Altitude Agility: Ability to operate at all altitudes – from discussing monetization vision and board-level strategy with executives, to troubleshooting quote-to-cash operations with individual contributors.
Extreme Ownership: An extreme degree of ownership and grit. You do not let go until a problem is solved for good.
Decisiveness: Ability to execute with conviction and good judgment with limited guidance; needs minimal direction in an ambiguous context to take action and then adapt quickly.


Additional Information
Rippling is an equal opportunity employer. We are committed to building a diverse and inclusive workforce and do not discriminate based on race, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, veteran or military status, or any other legally protected characteristics, Rippling is committed to providing reasonable accommodations for candidates with disabilities who need assistance during the hiring process. To request a reasonable accommodation, please email accommodations@rippling.com



Rippling highly values having employees working in-office to foster a collaborative work environment and company culture.  Rippling considers working in the office, at least three days a week under current policy, to be an essential function of the employee's role.

#LI-hybrid



This role will receive a competitive salary + benefits + equity. A variety of factors are considered when determining someone’s compensation–including a candidate’s professional background, experience, and location. Final offer amounts may vary from the amounts listed below.			

The pay range for this role is:

170,000 - 230,000 USD per year (US Tier 1)